doc: add reference for rt-conf tool config.yaml (#95)
canonical/real-time-ubuntu-docs: docs/reference/rt-conf-yaml.md

# rt-conf config.yaml schema

The following schema reflects all configuration keys available in `config.yaml` for `rt-conf` tool

## Top-level directives

> 

Author: Yeah, that makes sense. Done here: https://github.com/canonical/real-time-ubuntu-docs/pull/95/commits/73f7d39940142037bfbfcc9b92126ebb68d58e8c

> # rt-conf config.yaml schema
> 
> The following schema reflects all configuration keys available in `config.yaml` for `rt-conf` tool
> 
> ## Top-level directives
> 
> There are three top-level dictionaries in `config.yaml`, {ref}`kcmd`, {ref}`irqt` and {ref}`cpug`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# RT Conf configuration schema

The following schema reflects all settings available in the configuration file of the `rt-conf` tool

## Top-level directives

There are three top-level dictionaries in the configuration file: {ref}`kcmd`, {ref}`irqt` and {ref}`cpug`.
```
The config file name is arbitrary.

Author: True. Done here: https://github.com/canonical/real-time-ubuntu-docs/pull/95/commits/62876a3889b5e4467be366d16b0be9a6e1a4ceab

(kcmd)=
### kernel_cmdline

Type: `dict`

_Optional_

{ref}`kernel-boot-parameters` that affects real-time behavior

#### isolcpus

Type: `string`

_Optional_

A string formatted as {ref}`cpu-lists`. 
Isolate CPUs from general execution.

#### nohz 

Type: `enum`

_Optional_

Enable/disable dynamic ticks during idle time.

Valid values are:
  * `on`: **Enables** dynamic ticks
  * `off`:**Disables** dynamic ticks

#### nohz_full

Type: `string`

_Optional_

A string formatted as {ref}`cpu-lists`. 
Specifies the adaptive-ticks cpus, which means the specified list of CPUs whose tick will be stopped whenever possible.
The boot CPU will be forced outside the range to maintain the timekeeping.

#### kthread_cpus

Type: `string`

_Optional_

A string formatted as {ref}`cpu-lists`. 
Specifies the list of CPUs to be allocated for kernel threads.

> #### irqaffinity

Author: You're right, it should be prefixed with the parent, fixed here: https://github.com/canonical/real-time-ubuntu-docs/pull/95/commits/80a65d1f3c7b3a45c00ca135d5c05cbfc2437234

Type: `string`

_Optional_

A string formatted as {ref}`cpu-lists`. 
Specifies the list of CPUs for IRQ handling.

(irqt)=
### irq_tuning 

Type: `list[dict]`

_Optional_

A list of configurations including the list of cpus to be applied and the filters.
Runtime configurations that aren't persisted, related to IRQ affinity tuning.

Example:

```yaml
irq_tuning:
  - cpus: "2-3"
    filter:
      actions: "iwlwifi"
      chip_name: "IR-PCI"
      name: "edge"
      type: "edge"
```

> #### irq_tuning.<list item>.cpus

Author: Fixed here: https://github.com/canonical/real-time-ubuntu-docs/pull/95/commits/ebd8f60b39e3229eb3788f996f5a7eb88a9402d2

Type `string`

_Required_

A string formatted as {ref}`cpu-lists`. 
Specifies the list of CPUs which will handle the matched IRQs on the {ref}`filter <irqfilter>`.

(irqfilter)=
#### irq_tuning.[list item].filter
Type: `dict`

_Required_

A dictionary with keys related to IRQ properties of `/sys/kernel/irq/<IRQ-num>/`.

##### irq_tuning.[list item].filter.actions
Type: `regex string`

_Optional_

The IRQ action chain. A comma-separated list of zero or more device names associated with this interrupt.
For network related, generally is the name of the network interface shown in `ip link show`. 

##### irq_tuning.[list item].filter.chip_name
Type: `regex string`

_Optional_

Chip name supplied by the associated device driver.

Example: `IR-PCI-MSIX-0000:04:00.0`

##### irq_tuning.[list item].filter.name
Type: `regex string`

_Optional_

Human-readable flow handler name as defined by the irq chip driver.

> Common values are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example values are:
```

Author: Done here: https://github.com/canonical/real-time-ubuntu-docs/pull/95/commits/29c21f9bd95139b3a54504e3b1392c893c5f4236

  * `edge`
  * `fasteoi`

##### irq_tuning.[list item].filter.type
Type: `enum`

_Optional_

The type of the interrupt.
Valid values:
  * `edge`
  * `level` 

(cpug)=
### cpu_governance

Type: `list[dict]`

_Optional_

Runtime configurations that aren't persisted, related to cpu power management.
A list of dictionaries with the CPU scaling governor and the cpu list to be applied.

Example:

```yaml
cpu_governance: 
  - cpus: "0-1"
    scaling_governor: "performance"
```

#### cpu_governance..cpus

Type: `string`

_Required_

A string formatted as {ref}`cpu-lists`. 
Specifies which cpus are going to be configured with the scaling governor specified in the item.

> #### cpu_governance..cpus

Reviewer: Missing `[list item]`, but looks more readable in the end...

Author: Done here: https://github.com/canonical/real-time-ubuntu-docs/pull/95/commits/73f7d39940142037bfbfcc9b92126ebb68d58e8c

Author: It could be, but it wouldn't be intuitive, because all the documentation that I see out there uses some sort of identifier for the case of lists in the yaml config file.

Snapcraft docs uses `<item>`, GitHub uses `parent-name[*]`, so it would be unfamiliar for the user this sort of syntax.

Reviewer: `[*]` is not a bad alternative. The current ToC is not very readable:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0e9aa558-7b2a-4460-9266-e13f383d9878)

Author: I've changed the symbology used to indicate a list to be `[*]` here: https://github.com/canonical/real-time-ubuntu-docs/pull/95/commits/4fb41b0a400a14f97f3b60f86fbd9f1ab9e4a119 please let me know if you're happy on how it looks.

Specifies the list of CPUs for IRQ handling.

(irqt)=
## irq_tuning 

Type: `list[dict]`

_Optional_

A list of configurations including the list of cpus to be applied and the filters.
Runtime configurations that aren't persisted, related to IRQ affinity tuning.

Example:

```yaml
irq_tuning:
  - cpus: "2-3"
    filter:
      actions: "iwlwifi"
      chip_name: "IR-PCI"
      name: "edge"
      type: "edge"
```

### irq_tuning[*].cpus

Type `string`

_Required_

A string formatted as {ref}`cpu-lists`. 
Specifies the list of CPUs which will handle the matched IRQs on the {ref}`filter <irqfilter>`.

(irqfilter)=
### irq_tuning[*].filter

Type: `dict`

_Required_

A dictionary with keys related to IRQ properties of `/sys/kernel/irq/<IRQ-num>/`.

#### irq_tuning[*].filter.actions

Type: `regex string`

_Optional_

The IRQ action chain. A comma-separated list of zero or more device names associated with this interrupt.
For network related, generally is the name of the network interface shown in `ip link show`. 

#### irq_tuning[*].filter.chip_name

Type: `regex string`

_Optional_

Chip name supplied by the associated device driver.

Example: `IR-PCI-MSIX-0000:04:00.0`

> #### irq_tuning.rules[*].filter.name
> 
> Type: `regex string`
> 
> _Optional_
> 
> Human-readable flow handler name as defined by the irq chip driver.
> Example values are:
>   * `edge`
>   * `fasteoi`
> 
> #### irq_tuning.rules[*].filter.type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### irq_tuning[*].filter.name

Type: `regex string`

_Optional_

Human-readable flow handler name as defined by the irq chip driver.
Example values are:
  * `edge`
  * `fasteoi`

#### irq_tuning[*].filter.type
```
